---
layout: post
title:      "CLI Data Gem Project"
date:       2017-10-03 21:10:49 +0000
permalink:  cli_data_gem_project
---


So initially when I started this project I kind of froze because I wasn't sure where to start in terms of what to make my project about. I didn't know how to start it or what exactly the project should've looked like, so for I few days I was a little lost. I watched the video with Avi and realized that it wasn't as bad as I thought, but I still wasn't quite sure about how to start the project. So the first week (yes I have worked on this project more than one week) I tried to figure out how to start the project off in IDE so I tried to work on the project on my personal terminal and code editor, but that was not successful because I had errors downloading ruby. So i finally spoke with the section lead about start my project in the IDE finally. 
The second week, I was able to get further along with my project because I followed along with the video which was very helpful I definitely don't think I would've gotten as far as I had if I didn't have the video (based on mental stress). I had an error that took a whole week to get through because I changed the name of a file that in hindsight shouldn't have been changed, but I was trying to follow previous labs with an environment file that is needed for the bin/console to work. I had a require fail that stressed me out so much because I know I was following the video, but I needed to learn that when you change the name of a file you have to make sure that all the files associated with the file need to be linked back to the file. I had to change the name in the bin/console and finally got through the error and on to my next error. My next error was the scrapping error during the binding pry, I am trying to scrape some categories on the side of a clothing website for tops. I have tried a variety of different css phrases to get the scrape to say the category that I needed, but it just gave me an empty string or way too much data that I didn't need for the category I was working on. This process is very time consuming and also frustrating when you can hop on ask a question to get a clarification on how to scrape specific parts of a sight that is not similar to the videos they have available for the scarping lesson.
After I few days of being stuck and confused I went to a study group and realized that the website I was trying to scrape was heavily Javascript based which meant that it was constantly updating and it wasn't as consistant with the css files. Which all in all means it was too advanced for basic CLI scraping and needs an API to scrape the website. When I finally got the process to work the parts I was getting stuck on seemed very simple which made me realize that I just need to slow down and pace myself while trying out the code for my project. Although there was a lot of frustrating parts of the project I know that I really enjoy the frustration because I was ready to get to the next error to try to fix it.
